Hello, it's great to have you here for
hopefully a good
day exploring the subject of how
to go about finding clients.
Whether you're a freelancer, whether
you're an agency doesn't really matter.
This hopefully will help in both cases.
In fact, this course is really good for
anybody who might be considering
becoming a freelancer at some stage.
Or even somebody that maybe just wants
to build an audience and a following so
that they can maybe sell a product later
down the line or do something else.
So it's a pretty flexible course and
hopefully,
you'll find it helpful and useful.
To provide you with a little
bit context on this course and
why we're doing it and
how it works and that kind of thing,
I think it's worth saying
a little bit about myself.
Mainly because I like talking about
myself, obviously like everybody does.
So basically, I've been working in digital
for my entire career, so 27 years now.
I know I don't look that old, but
13 years of which was running an agency.
We got up to about 20
people in the agency.
And so the kind of techniques I'm
gonna share today is enough to
support an agency of that
kinda size if you want to.
And then after about 13 years,
I stepped back from the agency because
I'm not really a people person and
I'm very bad at managing staff and
have the attention span of a small child.
So instead,
I decided to go freelance myself and
became an independent consultant.
And I've been using the same techniques
to support myself quite happily for
the last six years.
So it's a really flexible approach
that I'm gonna share with you and
can hopefully help in pretty much any
circumstance you find yourself in.
I've worked with clients in all kinds of
sectors, every conceivable sector you
can imagine, from, I don't know,
financial services through to charities.
And again, what I'm gonna share today is
pretty flexible whatever sectors you end
up working with.
I also work with all kinds of different
sizes of organization, and again,
this will help with that as well.
So really a very flexible approach
based on my personal experience.
I'm not saying it's the only
way of finding clients, but
it's certainly the one that's
worked best for me over the years.
Also, it's worth saying that
I've written a lot of books.
I speak a lot on these topics.
And I share almost everything that we
cover today in a lot more detail on my
blog and via the emails I send out.
So I would encourage you at the end
of this slide that you'll find a URL,
and that URL will give
you access to the slides.
And throughout the slides,
I kinda linked different articles and
things that I've written over the years.
So you might wanna check that out as well,
because then you can read and
get more detail.
So what are we gonna cover today?
Let's get into looking at the subject
matter we're gonna be talking about.
Well, we're gonna look at kind of
six different areas over the day.
We're gonna start at why you
are struggling to find clients.
So if you're already a freelancer or
already run an agency and you have
that deep seated worry about where the
next month's salary is gonna come from.
Then we're gonna address that and we're
gonna deal with why that is the case,
why things are not easier than they are.
And if you're ever
considering going freelance,
this will help you identify
the pitfalls before you reach them.
Because one of the reasons I love
teaching this particular workshop
is because it can have such
a transformational effect on people.
That when we become freelancers, a lot
people become freelancers because they
work for a company and they do this job.
And they see themselves being charged out
with twice the amount that they get paid.
And they think, well, why should
I be doing it for somebody else?
And then they jump in and
they become a freelancer thinking
that they're gonna have more time and
they're gonna be paid more and
it's gonna be this idealistic world.
But so
often it doesn't work out like that,
because there are many parts
you're not being told.
You might be the best coder in the world.
You might be the best data scientist.
You might be the best UI designer,
whatever it is that you do, but
that doesn't mean you
can sell your services.
And so
a lot of people end up very stressed,
very worried about where the next
paycheck is gonna come from.
So once we kind of establish
what doesn't work and
why there are problems,
we're then gonna look at, well, okay,
how are we going to define
the market that we wish to target?
Who do you wanna work with, right?
Instead of having this attitude of,
I'll just take whatever work I could get,
wouldn't it be great if you could pick and
choose your clients?
You could say what sector
you wanted to work and
what type of work you wanted to do.
So we're gonna look at
how to make that happen,
how to market to a specific audience,
how to identify that audience.
And once you've identified them,
how do we get their attention?
Cuz let's be honest,
unless you're a freelancer or
an agency that offer marketing services,
you're not a marketing and salesperson.
And in my experience, most designers and
developers kinda look at marketing and
sales and go, that's kinda nasty.
Nobody likes the idea of selling yourself.
And they certainly don't like
the idea of spamming people or
cold calling them or
anything like that, how horrendous.
It'd be soul destroying to
start doing that kind of thing.
So how do you get people's attention in a
way that's not salesy and not marketingy?
Then once we got their attention, how do
we get permission to stay in touch with
them, to build a relationship with them?
Because again, we don't wanna be kind
of constantly spamming people or
annoying people.
Because we've got a soul and
[LAUGH] we don't want to be evil.
So we've gotta find a way of making it
a mutually beneficial relationship.
So how do we get the permission for
ongoing contact and
how do we maintain and
grow our audience over time?
And then eventually,
when that audience is ready to buy,
how do we turn those
leads into real projects?
So there's a lot of ground to cover here,
but interestingly, and
I've looked, there's not much
teaching this stuff, right?
You just finished a bootcamp.
Did it cover anything like this?
>> Not much about finding freelance work.
They kind of spoke about contract work and
the benefits and things of that,
but not how to actually go out.
>> Yeah.
>> So a lot of people do turn to
contracting simply because they find
selling kinda distasteful and horrible,
and I can totally understand that.
But there is something, there's a huge
flexibility that comes with freelancing or
running your own agency that's
very appealing as well.
But yeah, you need to be able to
solve those kinds of sales problems.
I mean, you can go online, and you can
easily learn the latest Ruby techniques or
the latest framework or how to use Figma.
There's thousands of courses
about that kind of stuff.
But about actually winning work,
there's not a lot out there.
So that's why I'm doing this is hopefully
to bring a bit of peace of mind to
people and feel like they're in
control of their sales and marketing.
So with that in mind, let's look at, well,
why are so
many of us struggling with this?
Why is it such a horrendous thing for
many people that causes a lot
of stress and a lot of anxiety?
So let's dive in with that.